Edmund
S penser,

“Locrine,''

and

“ Selimus ”

60

that year, in his Arcadian Rhetorike. (See Dyce’s
note, p. 66, col. 2, Marlowe's W orks.) Selimus was
printed in 1 594, Locrine in the following year. There
is an entry of Locrine in the Stationers’ Registers under

date 20 July, 1 594, but none of Selimus‚ either there
or elsewhere.

I have said that Selimus is full of The Faerie Queene.
Here is an incomplete list of words—some of them
very rare in the literature of the time—and in most
cases it can be shown that they occur in the parallel
passages of the play and the poem. The list is con-
fined to words that occur in the first three books ot
The Faerie Queene. I will follow the list up by
illustrations :—

AssayS, battleous, besprent, bless(for bliss), carke, (to)
character, chrystaline‚ dolorous, dreeriment, embay,
endamaged, enhance, faitour, fantastic, game (=lust,
venery), gushing‚ gyre, hugy, hurtle, hurding, lewd
(=ignorant)‚ (to) mask, peirsant, puissance‚ reave,
rebutted, recomfort, re-vest, ruinate, smouldring,
smel-head, stent, surquedry, thrillant‚ tomb-black,
tronked, uneath, valiance, vermeil‚ warray.

“ Battailous'’ is a word that occurs many times in
Spenser, and the phrase “ battailous array” is used by
that poet three times in the first three books of The
Faerie Queene. I will quote one case only, and cite

